# How to use GitHub (basic)

[Original GitHub tutorial](https://www.pluralsight.com/blog/software-development/github-tutorial)
[How to write on GitHub](https://help.github.com/articles/about-writing-and-formatting-on-github/)

Glossary
You may need to refer to other definitions within the glossary to understand the keyword you're looking up

(stub): shorthand to say that this piece of information is incomplete or possibly inaccurate due to lack of knowledge or experience.
Branch: A temporary clone of the source code in question. Can be freely modified without affecting the original.
  - The master branch is not a clone but the trunk of the tree, if you will.
Commit: Contains all the changes made from the clone or fork of a branch. The edited code one has commited to submitting.
Fork: A copy of a branch to your repo for you to edit without affecting the source branch. (stub)
Issue: An issue can be a bug report, a request for a new feature, a request for help or even a question. 
  - Issues are created with a title and a description called a label.
Pull Request: A notification that a contributor is pushing a commit which needs reviewing before being merged.
Pulling: The master branch taking in code from a contributor.
Pushing: A contributor putting forward code they wish to be added to the master branch of the project.
Repository: A central location in which data is stored and managed. Repo is shorthand.


Signing up and your Profile Page

Your chosen email can be hidden from public view.
Your account must be verified before using.
Emails are used for (stub)
Your profile essentially three sections: personal information, your repos and your contributions.

Understanding the UI

Black Tool Bar

Icon: GitHub's homepage, appearance differs whether you're signed in or not.
Search bar: To find new projects by repository name. Search options can be configured on the search page.
Pull requests: Shows all pull requests relevant to you. (stub)
Issues: Shows all issues relevant to you. (stub)
Marketplace: Apps that modify GitHub. Your apps can be viewed at settings> delevoper settings
Explore: Search for sets of repositories that have a joining theme i.e. artificial learning.
The + dropdown menu: for creating new or importing old content i.e. repositories, issues.
The avatar dropdown menu: regular profile settings.
